.\" This file is part of Cflow -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2025 Sergey Poznyakoff
.\"
.\" Cflow is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" Cflow is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Cflow.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH CFLOW 1 "May 10, 2025" "CFLOW"
.SH NAME
cflow \- generate a C-language flowgraph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
\fBcflow\fB\
 [\fB\-ADIPSTUabdfilmnopqrsvx\fR]\
 [\fB\-D \fINAME\fR[\fB=\fIDEFN\fR]]\
 [\fB\-I \fIDIR\fR]\
 [\fB\-P \fIDIR\fR]\
 [\fB\-U \fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-d \fINUMBER\fR]\
 [\fB\-f \fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-i \fICLASSES\fR]\
 [\fB\-m \fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-o \fIFILE\fR]\
 [\fB\-p \fINUMBER\fR]\
 [\fB\-s \fISYMBOL\fB:\fR[\fB=\fR]\fITYPE\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-all\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBansi\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBbrief\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-cpp=\fICOMMAND\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-debug=\fR[\fINUMBER\fR]]\
 [\fB\-\-define=\fINAME\fR[\fB=\fIDEFN\fR]]\
 [\fB\-\-depth=\fINUMBER\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBemacs\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-format=\fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-include=\fICLASSES\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-include\-dir=\fIDIR\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-level\-indent=\fIELEMENT\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-main=\fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-no\-cpp\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-no\-main\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-no\-preprocess\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBnumber\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBomit\-arguments\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBomit\-symbol\-names\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-output=\fIFILE\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-prepend\-path=\fIDIR\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-preprocess=\fB[\fICOMMAND\fR]]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBprint\-level\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-profile=\fIFILE\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-pushdown=\fINUMBER\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBreverse\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-start=\fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-symbol=\fISYMBOL\fB:\fR[\fB=\fR]\fITYPE\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-target=\fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBtree\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-undefine=\fINAME\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBuse\-indentation\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBverbose\fR]\
 [\fB\-\-xref\fR]\
 [\fIFILE\fR]...
.PP
\fBcflow\fR [\fB\-?V\fR] [\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-\-usage\fR] [\fB\-\-version\fR]
.ad
.hy
.SH NOTE
This manpage is a short description of GNU \fBcflow\fR.  For a detailed
discussion, including examples and usage recommendations, refer to the
\fBGNU Cflow Manual\fR available in texinfo format.  If the \fBinfo\fR
reader and the cflow documentation are properly installed on your
system, the command
.PP
.RS +4
.B info cflow
.RE
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.PP
You can also view the manual using the info mode in
.BR emacs (1),
or find it in various formats online at
.PP
.RS +4
.B http://www.gnu.org/software/cflow/manual
.RE
.PP
If any discrepancies occur between this manpage and the
\fBGNU Cflow Manual\fR, the later shall be considered the authoritative
source.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cflow
analyzes a collection of input files written in \fBC\fR programming
language and writes to standard output a graph charting dependencies
between various functions.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General-purpose options
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-depth=\fINUMBER\fR
Set the depth at which the flowgraph is cut off.  By default the depth
is not limited.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR[\fB=\fINUMBER\fR]
Set debugging level.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format=\fINAME\fR
Use given output format \fINAME\fR. Valid names are \fBdot\fR (DOT
language), \fBgnu\fR (the default) and \fBposix\fR.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-include=\fICLASSES\fR
Include specified classes of symbols.  The
.BR ^ or -
symbol excludes the classes that follow it.  Valid classes are:
.RS
.TP
.BR _  " (underscore)"
Symbols whose names begin with an underscore.
.TP
.B s
Static symbols
.TP
.B t
Typedefs (for cross-references only).
.TP
.B x
All data symbols, both external and static
.RE
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output=\fIFILE\fR
Set output file name (default is \fB\-\fR, meaning stdout).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\- [ no- ] reverse
Print (don't print) reverse call tree.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xref\fR
Produce cross-reference listing only.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose error diagnostics.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-verbose\fR
Cancel effect of any prior \fB\-\-verbose\fR options.
.SS Program initialization
These options manipulate cflow profiles.  A \fIprofile\fR is a set of
\fBcflow\fR options intended to be applied together.  Profiles are used,
among others, to provide settings for specific versions of the C
language.
.PP
Each profile is given a unique name and stored in a file named
.IB NAME .cfo
located in \fIprofile search path\fR.  The default search path is
determined at compile time, and normally consists of the following
directories:
.TP
.B ~/.cflow.d
(\fB~/\fR stands for the user home directory)
.TP
.B /usr/share/cflow/site-init
.TP
.BI /usr/share/cflow/VERSION
(\fIVERSION\fR is the version of \fBcflow\fR)
.PP
Examine the output of the
.B cflow --help
command, to obtain the search path used by your version of
.BR cflow .
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-prepend\-path=\fIDIR\fR
Add \fIDIR\fR at the beginning of the profile search path.
.TP
.BI \-\-profile= NAME
Read options from the named \fIprofile\fR.  A profile is a text file
containing a set of \fBcflow\fR options.  This option causes lookup
of the file
.IB NAME .cfo
in profile search path.  The file is read, and all options from
it processed as though they appeared in that point of the command line.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't load default profile.
.IP
Default profile is stored in file \fBdefault.cfo\fR, located in the
search path.  Unless the \fB\-q\fR option is given, that file is
processed at startup.
.SS Parser control
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-ansi\fR
Accept only sources in ANSI C.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-ansi\fR
Don't assume input files are written in ANSI C.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-define=\fINAME\fR[\fB=\fIDEFN\fR]
Predefine \fINAME\fR as a macro.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-include\-dir=\fIDIR\fR
Add the directory \fIDIR\fR to the list of directories to be searched
for header files.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pushdown=\fINUMBER\fR
Set initial token stack size to \fINUMBER\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-preprocess\fR[\fB=\fICOMMAND\fR], \fB\-\-cpp\fR[\fB=\fICOMMAND\fR]
Run the specified preprocessor command.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-preprocess\fR, \fB\-\-no\-cpp\fR
Disable preprocessing.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-symbol=\fISYMBOL\fB:\fR[\fB=\fR]\fITYPE\fR
Register \fISYMBOL\fR with given \fITYPE\fR, or define an alias (if
\fB:=\fR is used). Valid types are:
.BR keyword " (or " kw ),
.BR modifier ,
.BR qualifier ,
.BR identifier ,
.BR type ,
.BR wrapper ,
and
.BR declaration .
Any unambiguous abbreviation of the above is also accepted.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-use\-indentation\fR
Rely on indentation to solve suspicious constructs.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-use\-indentation\fR
Don't use indentation in parsing (default).
.TP
\fB\-\-target=\fINAME\fR
Show only graphs leading from start symbols to this function; multiple
options are allowed.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-undefine=\fINAME\fR
Cancel any previous definition of \fINAME\fR.
.SS Output control
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Produce graphs for all global functions in the program.  Use this
option if your program contains functions which are not directly
reachable from \fBmain()\fR.
.IP
Output consists of separate flow graphs for each top-level function
defined in the program.  These graphs will be placed after the graph
for \fBmain()\fR (if it exists), and will be ordered lexicographically by
the function name.
.IP
If used twice, graphs for all global functions (whether top-level or
not) will be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
Brief output.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-brief\fR
Disable brief output.
.TP
\fB\-\-emacs\fR
Format output for use with GNU Emacs.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-emacs\fR
Disable the effect of the previous \fB\-\-emacs\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-print\-level\fR
Print nesting level along with the call tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-print\-level\fR
Don't print nesting level.
.TP
\fB\-\-level\-indent=\fIELEMENT\fR
Control graph appearance.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-main=\fINAME\fR
Assume main function is \fINAME\fR.  This option can be given multiple
times. A separate graph will be drawn for each function given as its
argument.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-main\fR
Assume there's no main function in the program.  This option has the
same effect as \fB\-\-all\fR, except that, if the program do define
the \fBmain\fR function, it will be treated as any other functions,
i.e. it will not be placed at the top of output, but in its
place as per the lexicographic ordering of function names.  See also the
description of \fB\-\-all\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-number\fR
Print line numbers.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-number\fR
Don't print line numbers.
.TP
\fB\-\-omit\-arguments\fR
Do not print argument lists in function declarations.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-omit\-arguments\fR
Print argument lists in function declarations (the default).
.TP
\fB\-\-omit\-symbol\-names\fR
Do not print symbol names in declaration strings.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-omit\-symbol\-names\fR
Print symbol names in declaration strings (the default).
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-tree\fR
Draw ASCII art tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-tree\fR
Disable tree output.
.SS Informational options
These options instruct the program to output the requested piece of
information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a short help summary.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Print a summary of available options.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error occurred.
.TP
.B 2
Some input files cannot be read or parsed.
.TP
.B 3
Command line usage error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Online copies of \fBGNU cflow\fR documentation in various formats can be
found at:
.PP
.in +4
.B http://www.gnu.org/software/cflow/manual
.SH AUTHORS
Sergey Poznyakoff <gray@gnu.org>.
.SH "BUG REPORTS"
Report bugs to <bug\-cflow@gnu.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2025 Sergey Poznyakoff
.br
.na
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
.br
.ad
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.\" Local variables:
.\" eval: (add-hook 'write-file-hooks 'time-stamp)
.\" time-stamp-start: ".TH [A-Z_][A-Z0-9_.\\-]* [0-9] \""
.\" time-stamp-format: "%:B %:d, %:y"
.\" time-stamp-end: "\""
.\" time-stamp-line-limit: 20
.\" end:
